#Bestof lists

Bestof lists which I generally approve:

- Criterion Collection: almost anything is watchable: <http://www.criterion.com/library/list_view?b=Criterion&p=1&pp=all&s=spine>

#Facts

- <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/All_persons_fictitious_disclaimer>: use started after a 1932 MGM movie Rasputin and the Empress was sued for suggesting sexual assault of a living princess. I don't see how such superficial notices could avoid a law suite, since what you actually do is more important than what you say you do. This is probably why there have been so many ironic uses for it.

- <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Idi_Amin_Dada:_A_Self_Portrait>: because he did not like the editing of the film, he rounded up 200 French citizens in Uganda and threatened to kill them unless the film was edited as he liked it.

#Subjects I like

- war
- mafia
- Japan
- China
- samurai
- western
- suspense
- thriller
- horror
- detective
- 70's
- 20's
- documentary
- film noir
- nouvelle vague
- social critique and satire
- sci-fi
- minimalism, little dialogue

#Films I like

##Violent

- Godfather 1 and 2
- Apocalypse Now
- Battle of Algiers
- Once Upon a Time in the West
- Seven Samurai
- The Deer Hunter
- City of God 2003
- Das Bot

##Documentary

- Nanook of the North

##Nouvelle vague

- Dolce Vita
- Hiroshima Mon Amour
- Man with Camera 1929

##Horror

- Kwaidan
- House
- Haxan

##Suspense

- Knife in the Water
- Vanishing 1982
- Woman in the Dunes

##Comedy

- Dr. Strangelove
- Gold Rush
- General 1927
- How to Get Ahead in Advertising
- Mon Oncle and Playtime from Jacques Tati

##Drama

- Passion of Joan of Arc
- Last Tango in Paris
- Nashvile
- Story of Floating Weeds 1934
- Apu Trilogy
- Mishima 1985
- 400 blows
- Rocco and his Brothers
- Forest Gump
- Red Sorghum 1987

##SciFi

- 2001 Space Odyssey
- Blane Runner
- Metropolis 1927

##Misc

- Maltese Falcon
- Deus e o Diabo na Terra do Sol 1964
- Rashomon
- West Side Story

##Tier 2

Films I almost put on the best list:

- Brief Encounter
- Army in the Shadows 1969
- Investigation of a citizen above suspicion
- Il Posto
- Andrei Rublev

##New Ones

- 6th sense
- Seven 1995
- Matrix

#Jargon

- <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comic_relief>
- [Splatter, gorno, torture porn](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Splatter_film)
- [snuff films](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snuff_film): real deaths caught on tape
- [Stock footage](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stock_footage)

#Quotes

Once upon a time in the west:

- looks like we're short one horse
- 42: inside them there were three men, inside them there were 3 bullets.
- 1:06: its almost like holding a gun. Only much more powerful.
- 1:50: there were no dollars on 'em' days
- 2:14: so you found out you weren't a business man after all.

#Best scenes

##Life of Brian

- stoning
- Biggus Dickus

##Turn up to 11

Expression generated by the Spinal Tap film: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Up_to_eleven> has entered the Oxford dictionary. I say it used on a programming documentation.

On its primary page for the This Is Spinal Tap, IMDb displays the user rating for the film out of 11 stars (e.g. 8.0/11) instead of the standard scale of one to ten: <http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0088258/>!

As a consequence of the film, real bands and musicians started buying equipment whose knobs went up to 11, or even higher, with Eddie Van Halen reputedly being the first to do so.

#Misc

- American Age Rating System: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rated_PG>

#Big watch list

Ratings:

- 9: I love it
- 8: very much worth my time
- 7: worth my time
- 6: almost worth my time
- 5: not worth my time, but did not make me angry of wasting it

Table:

| Title                            | Year | Note | Short description                                                           |
|----------------------------------|------|------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Walker                           | 1987 | 6    |                                                                             |
| Gomorrah                         | 2008 | 8    | Describes in detail the business model of a Napolitan crime organization.   |
| The spy who came from the cold   | 1965 | 8    |                                                                             |
| Makioka sisters                  | 1983 | 7    |                                                                             |
| Safety last                      | 1923 | 8    | Feels like everyday life on a startup.                                      |
| Badlands                         | 1973 | 8    | Beautiful scenes and music. Love how the girl honestly narrates things.     |
| Thin red line                    | 1998 | 5    | Not convinced by the "pure natives cliché" or the super star cameos.        |
| Hunger                           | 2008 | 7    | They don't talk much, which is great.                                       |
| Three outlaw samurai             | 1964 | 7    | Fun, a few visually great scenes, but all in all not specially outstanding. |
| Gate of hell                     | 1953 | 8    | Beautiful scenes, mostly open air shots.                                    |
| The Rolling Stones-Gimme Shelter | 1970 | 6    |                                                                             |

Longer comments:

##The spy who came from the cold 1965

Depicts many interesting intelligence techniques.

I ask myself if such intricacy level was ever achieved in reality, but I do believe in the individual pieces.

Give a German alias to a German spy, it's less conspicuous.

The philosophical end dialog is beautiful.

- How big does your cause have to be before you start killing for it? What about your Party? There's a few million bodies on that path.
- What rules do you play by? Expediency.

## Man from Earth 2007

Note: 8

<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Man_from_Earth>

The writer, <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jerome_Bixby>, is the same person who wrote the Star Trek "Mirror, Mirror" episode.

#Ultra artistic

-   <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Empire_%281964_film%29>

#Series

| Title           | Year | Note | Hours | Short description                                                                   |
|-----------------|------|------|-------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Smiley's people | 1987 | 9    | 6     | Convincing, admiring main character, shows Europe and spy craft with great realism. |

<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_series>

<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YouTube_fame>

##True detective

Note: 7.

Good. Some points a bit cliché or overly dramatic,
but some smart moves like the shootout lying scene which echoes the Godfather's christening scene

The scenery is the most important thing in the series.

##Silicon Valley

Note: 7.

Quite realistic.

Some season 1 episodes lose the edge, but most were good.

##Star Trek

A few gem episodes still worthwhile today, but most not worth it.

##The Wire

Interesting to see how the high level semi-political policeman want to close cases as soon as possible even if it means letting the real deal go by just to save face.

- S01 E03: cool to see how hard it was to get the wire, even when it was obviously necessary.
- S01 E04: chess scene, speechless crime scene investigation
- S01 E05: "Major likes assets.", commenting on how taking away the gangster's buildings would bring money into the department.

- S02 E02: Amazing to see how the officers fight to get the murders to someone else's jurisdiction
- S02 E05: Omar's trial
- S02 E07: Funeral flower arrangements that look like guns to target drug dealers

- S03 E04: 10s silent investigation scene on Dee's "suicide"

#Webseries

- <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fs2wczJXETM>
